Fix placeholders (#1352)
redpanda-data/documentation: modules/deploy/pages/redpanda/kubernetes/k-production-readiness.adoc

**Multi-tenant disk warning:**

WARNING: Avoid cloud instance types that use multi-tenant or shared disks, as these can lead to unpredictable performance due to noisy neighbor effects. Examples of instances with shared/multi-tenant storage include AWS is4gen.xlarge and similar instance types across cloud providers. Instead, use instances with dedicated local NVMe storage or provisioned IOPS volumes that guarantee consistent performance.

Multi-tenant disks can experience:

* Unpredictable latency spikes from other tenants' workloads
* Inconsistent throughput that varies based on neighbor activity
* IOPS throttling that impacts Redpanda's performance
* Difficulty troubleshooting performance issues due to external factors

See xref:deploy:redpanda/kubernetes/k-requirements.adoc#storage[Storage requirements] for detailed specifications and xref:deploy:redpanda/kubernetes/k-requirements.adoc#cloud-instance-types[Cloud Instance Types] for recommended instance types across AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud.

**Volume sizing**:: Plan storage capacity for data growth and retention requirements.
+
* Account for replication overhead
* Include space for compaction operations

> * Monitor disk usage trends

Reviewer: But the anchor does exist? https://deploy-preview-1352--redpanda-docs-preview.netlify.app/current/deploy/redpanda/kubernetes/k-requirements/#cloud-instance-types
<img width="807" height="260" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/218598ee-ed02-46d1-b68e-2e004f6d3d9b" />

Check that no brokers are in maintenance mode during normal operations.

Maintenance mode is used when modifying brokers that will remain as members of the cluster, such as during rolling upgrades or hardware maintenance. While necessary during planned maintenance windows, brokers should not remain in maintenance mode during normal operations.

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster maintenance status -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NODE-ID  ENABLED  FINISHED  ERRORS  PARTITIONS  ELIGIBLE  TRANSFERRING  FAILED
0        false    -         -       -           -         -             -
1        false    -         -       -           -         -             -
2        false    -         -       -           -         -             -
----
--

All brokers should show `ENABLED: false`. If any broker shows `ENABLED: true` outside of a planned maintenance window, investigate immediately.

See also: xref:manage:node-management.adoc#place-a-broker-in-maintenance-mode[Maintenance Mode]

=== 5. Consistent Redpanda version

> Check that Redpanda is running the https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda/releases[latest point release^] for the major version you're on and that all brokers run the same version.

Reviewer 2: @vuldin does this check the rp version or operator version?
if only rp, should the user also check the operator?

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk redpanda admin brokers list -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

> // TODO: Add expected output example

Reviewer 2: if we have an example output here, would be great

= Production Readiness Checklist
:description: Comprehensive checklist for validating Redpanda deployments in Kubernetes against production readiness standards.
:page-context-links: [{"name": "Linux", "to": "deploy:redpanda/linux/index.adoc" },{"name": "Kubernetes", "to": "deploy:redpanda/kubernetes/index.adoc" } ]
:page-categories: Production, Deployment
:learning-objective-1: Validate a Kubernetes-deployed Redpanda cluster against production readiness standards

Before running a production workload on Redpanda in Kubernetes, follow this readiness checklist.

By completing this checklist, you will be able to:

> * [ ] {learning-objective-1}

Reviewer 3: Again, a list of one is a list that doesn't really need to exist. It could just be a sentence. However, we are in the midst of adding the learning objectives. Ideally, you could define 1-2 more.

> NOTE: For Linux deployments, see the xref:deploy:redpanda/manual/production/production-readiness.adoc[Production Readiness Checklist for Linux].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: For Linux deployments, use the xref:deploy:redpanda/manual/production/production-readiness.adoc[Production Readiness Checklist for Linux].
```

== Critical requirements

> The Critical requirements checklist helps you confirm that:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Critical requirements checklist helps you confirm that you have:
```

> - You have specified all required defaults and configuration items.
> - You have the optimal hardware setup.
> - You have enabled security.
> - You are set up to run in production.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Specified all required defaults and configuration items
- The optimal hardware setup
- Enabled security
- Set up your cluster to run in production
```

All nodes:                        [0 1 2]
Nodes down:                       []
Leaderless partitions (0):        []
Under-replicated partitions (0):  []
----
--

=== Minimum broker count

You must have at least three brokers running to ensure production-level fault tolerance.

Production clusters should have an odd number of brokers (3, 5, 7, etc.) for optimal consensus behavior.

Verify the running broker count:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -n <namespace> -l app.kubernetes.io/component=redpanda-statefulset
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
redpanda-0   2/2     Running   0          10d
redpanda-1   2/2     Running   0          10d
redpanda-2   2/2     Running   0          10d
----

Verify the configured replica count in your deployment:

[tabs]
======
Helm::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
helm get values redpanda -n <namespace> | grep -A 1 "statefulset:"
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
statefulset:
  replicas: 3
----
--

Operator::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get redpanda redpanda -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.clusterSpec.statefulset.replicas}'
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
3
----
--
======

> 

Reviewer 3: You may want to add See also: and link to the https://deploy-preview-1352--redpanda-docs-preview.netlify.app/current/deploy/redpanda/kubernetes/k-production-readiness/#default-topic-replication-factor section that comes later. That way they can see how to specify the value of 3 if not already using it (I think the default is 3, but you never know if someone might have changed it).

=== Active broker membership

Verify that all brokers are in active state and not being decommissioned.

Decommissioning is used to permanently remove a broker from the cluster, such as during node pool migrations or cluster downsizing. Brokers in a decommissioned state should not be present in production clusters unless actively performing a planned migration.

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk redpanda admin brokers list -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NODE-ID  NUM-CORES  MEMBERSHIP-STATUS  IS-ALIVE  BROKER-VERSION
0        4          active             true      v24.2.4
1        4          active             true      v24.2.4
2        4          active             true      v24.2.4
----

All brokers must show `active` status. If any broker shows the status `draining` or `decommissioned`, investigate immediately.

See also: xref:manage:kubernetes/k-decommission-brokers.adoc[Decommission Brokers]

=== No brokers in maintenance mode

> Check that no brokers are in maintenance mode during normal operations.

Reviewer 3: link to https://docs.redpanda.com/current/manage/node-management/

Reviewer 3: Ah--see you have it below. That works.

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster maintenance status -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NODE-ID  ENABLED  FINISHED  ERRORS  PARTITIONS  ELIGIBLE  TRANSFERRING  FAILED
0        false    -         -       -           -         -             -
1        false    -         -       -           -         -             -
2        false    -         -       -           -         -             -
----

All brokers should show `ENABLED: false`. If any broker shows `ENABLED: true` outside of a planned maintenance window, investigate immediately.

See also: xref:manage:kubernetes/k-rolling-restart.adoc[Maintenance Mode]

=== Consistent Redpanda version

Check that Redpanda is running the https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda/releases[latest point release^] for the major version you're on and that all brokers run the same version.

> **Verify Redpanda broker versions:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To verify Redpanda broker versions:
```

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk redpanda admin brokers list -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NODE-ID  NUM-CORES  MEMBERSHIP-STATUS  IS-ALIVE  BROKER-VERSION
0        4          active             true      v25.2.4
1        4          active             true      v25.2.4
2        4          active             true      v25.2.4
----

All brokers must show the same `BROKER-VERSION`. Version mismatches between brokers can cause compatibility issues and must be resolved before advancing to production.

> **Verify Helm Chart or Operator version compatibility:**

Reviewer 3: Since we started using AI, I'm seeing a lot more instances where people are using boldface in lieu of a heading. Was going to bring this up in the team mtg this week. The Style Guide says:
Bold text
Use bold text to indicate that a string is UI text. Do not use a bold font to emphasize a word or phrase.

Correct: Enter a name for the new cluster in the Cluster name field.

Incorrect: You must have Redpanda version 21.11.3 or later installed to use Shadow Indexing.
This would be caught if running this through our Claude Code integration review.

For example, if running Redpanda v25.2.x, the Helm Chart or Operator version must be v25.1.x, v25.2.x, or v25.3.x.

[tabs]
======
Helm::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
helm list -n <namespace>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME     NAMESPACE  REVISION  UPDATED                               STATUS    CHART            APP VERSION
redpanda redpanda   1         2024-01-15 10:30:00.123456 -0800 PST deployed  redpanda-5.2.4   v25.2.4
----

The `CHART` column shows the Helm Chart version (for example, `redpanda-5.2.4`), which should be compatible with the `APP VERSION` (Redpanda version).
--

Operator::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get deployment redpanda-controller-manager -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.template.spec.containers[0].image}'
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
docker.redpanda.com/redpandadata/redpanda-operator:v25.2.4
----

The Operator version is shown in the image tag (for example, `v25.2.4`), which should be compatible with your Redpanda broker version.

You can also check the Operator version using:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get redpanda redpanda -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.metadata.annotations.redpanda\.com/operator-version}'
----
--
======

> **Version compatibility requirements:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Version compatibility requirements:
```

> * All Redpanda brokers must run the same version

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* All Redpanda brokers must run the same version.
```

> * The Helm Chart or Operator version must be within ±1 minor version of Redpanda version
> * Example: Redpanda v25.2.x requires Helm/Operator v25.1.x, v25.2.x, or v25.3.x

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The Helm Chart or Operator version must be within ±1 minor version of the Redpanda version. For example, Redpanda v25.2.x requires Helm/Operator v25.1.x, v25.2.x, or v25.3.x.
```

> * Running incompatible versions can lead to deployment failures or cluster instability

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Running incompatible versions can lead to deployment failures or cluster instability.
```

Verify that versions are explicitly pinned in your deployment configuration:

[tabs]
======
Helm::
+
--
[,yaml]
----
image:
  tag: v24.2.4  # Pin specific Redpanda version

console:
  enabled: true
  image:
    tag: v2.4.5  # Pin specific Console version

connectors:
  enabled: true
  image:
    tag: v1.0.15  # Pin specific Connectors version
----

Verify pinned versions:

.Input
[,bash]
----
helm get values redpanda -n <namespace>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
image:
  tag: v24.2.4
console:
  image:
    tag: v2.4.5
connectors:
  image:
    tag: v1.0.15
----
--

Operator::
+
--
[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cluster.redpanda.com/v1alpha2
kind: Redpanda
metadata:
  name: redpanda
spec:
  clusterSpec:
    image:
      tag: v24.2.4  # Pin specific Redpanda version

  console:
    enabled: true
    image:
      tag: v2.4.5  # Pin specific Console version

  connectors:
    enabled: true
    image:
      tag: v1.0.15  # Pin specific Connectors version
----

Verify pinned versions:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get redpanda redpanda -n <namespace> -o yaml | grep -A 1 "tag:"
----
--
======

> Version pinning prevents automatic upgrades during unintended times (for example, during high-traffic periods) and ensures all environments (dev/staging/prod) run the same tested versions. It allows controlled upgrade testing in non-production environments first, avoids compatibility issues between Redpanda and its components, and provides rollback capability to known-good versions.

Reviewer 3: This first line is also in the Tip at the beginning of this section. Maybe place in one place or the other? I thought it a bit odd that the section started with a tip before it ever explained anything about version pinning.

Reviewer 3: ^^ Maybe remove from right after the heading and repurpose this para in your Tip here?

See also: xref:manage:kubernetes/k-manage-topics.adoc#choose-the-replication-factor[Choose the Replication Factor]

=== Existing topics replication factor

Check that all existing topics have adequate replication (default is `3`).

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk topic list -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME              PARTITIONS  REPLICAS
_schemas          1           3
orders            12          3
payments          8           3
user-events       16          3
----
--

All production topics should have `REPLICAS` of three or greater. Topics with single-digit replication are at risk of data loss if a broker fails.

See also: xref:manage:cluster-maintenance/topic-property-configuration.adoc#change-topic-replication-factor[Change Topic Replication Factor]

=== Persistent storage configuration

Verify that you have configured persistent storage (not hostPath or emptyDir) for data persistence.

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get pvc -n <namespace>
----

> .Output

Reviewer 3: I wish there was a way to toggle between the input and output so that each would read better (they wouldn't be bunched up so much). Even when I widen the window to my screen size, it does not widen the input/output.

[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME                    STATUS   VOLUME                                     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
datadir-redpanda-0      Bound    pvc-a1b2c3d4-e5f6-7890-abcd-ef1234567890   100Gi      RWO            fast-ssd       10d
datadir-redpanda-1      Bound    pvc-b2c3d4e5-f6g7-8901-bcde-fg2345678901   100Gi      RWO            fast-ssd       10d
datadir-redpanda-2      Bound    pvc-c3d4e5f6-g7h8-9012-cdef-gh3456789012   100Gi      RWO            fast-ssd       10d
----
--

> Verify the StatefulSet uses PersistentVolumeClaims:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Verify the StatefulSet uses PersistentVolumeClaims:

```

Reviewer 3: ^^ So that Input renders correctly.

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl describe statefulset -n <namespace> redpanda | grep -A 5 "Volume Claims"
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
Volume Claims:
  Name:          datadir
  StorageClass:  fast-ssd
  Labels:        <none>
  Annotations:   <none>
  Capacity:      100Gi
----

> HostPath and emptyDir storage are not suitable for production as they lack durability guarantees.

Reviewer 3: Maybe a See also to https://docs.redpanda.com/current/manage/kubernetes/storage/k-persistent-storage/ ?

kubectl debug node/<node-name> -it -- chroot /host /bin/bash
lsblk -o NAME,TYPE,SIZE,MOUNTPOINT,FSTYPE
lvs -o lv_name,stripes,stripe_size
mdadm --detail /dev/md*  # if using software RAID
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
# lsblk output
NAME          TYPE  SIZE   MOUNTPOINT        FSTYPE
nvme0n1       disk  1.8T
nvme1n1       disk  1.8T
vg0-data      lvm   3.6T   /var/lib/redpanda xfs

# lvs output - note stripes > 1 indicates striping
LV    #Stripes StripeSize
data  2        256.00k
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
# mdadm output
/dev/md0:
    Raid Level : raid0
    Array Size : 3515625472 (3.27 TiB)
  Raid Devices : 2

    Number   Major   Minor   RaidDevice State
       0     259        0        0      active sync   /dev/nvme0n1
       1     259        1        1      active sync   /dev/nvme1n1
----

Using LVM linear/concat or JBOD instead of stripe/RAID-0 across multiple disks will severely degrade performance because data writes are serialized rather than parallelized. For optimal I/O throughput, configure multiple disks in a striped array that writes data across all disks simultaneously. Single disk configurations do not require striping.

> 

Reviewer 3: See also taking them to:
https://docs.redpanda.com/current/deploy/redpanda/kubernetes/k-production-deployment/#storage and

=== Storage performance requirements

Ensure storage classes provide adequate IOPS and throughput for your workload.

> **Performance specifications:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ensure storage classes provide adequate IOPS and throughput for your workload by using the following specifications when selecting a storage class:
```

Multi-tenant disks can experience:

* Unpredictable latency spikes from other tenants' workloads
* Inconsistent throughput that varies based on neighbor activity
* IOPS throttling that impacts Redpanda's performance
* Difficulty troubleshooting performance issues due to external factors

See also:

* xref:deploy:redpanda/kubernetes/k-requirements.adoc#storage[Storage requirements]
* xref:deploy:redpanda/kubernetes/k-requirements.adoc#cloud-instance-types[Cloud Instance Types]

=== CPU and memory resource limits

Verify Pods have resource requests and limits configured.

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get pod <pod-name> -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.containers[?(@.name=="redpanda")].resources}' | jq
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
{
  "limits": {
    "cpu": "4",
    "memory": "8Gi"
  },
  "requests": {
    "cpu": "4",
    "memory": "8Gi"
  }
}
----
--

All Redpanda Pods must have:

> * **Identical** CPU requests and limits (`requests.cpu == limits.cpu`)

Reviewer 3: Given that you say "must have" (and for emphasis, you could use _must_ have), so no need for bold in either bullet here.

* **Identical** memory requests and limits (`requests.memory == limits.memory`)

Setting requests equal to limits ensures the Pod receives the `Guaranteed` QoS class, which prevents CPU throttling and reduces the risk of Pod eviction.

See also: xref:manage:kubernetes/k-manage-resources.adoc[Manage Pod Resources]

=== CPU to memory ratio

Ensure adequate memory allocation relative to CPU for optimal performance.

Production deployments should provision at least 2 GiB of memory per CPU core. The ratio should be at least 1:2 (2 GiB per core).

Verify the CPU to memory ratio in your configuration:

[tabs]
======
Helm::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
helm get values redpanda -n <namespace> | grep -A 2 "resources:"
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
resources:
  cpu:
    cores: 4
  memory:
    container:
      min: 8Gi
      max: 8Gi
----
--

Operator::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get redpanda redpanda -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.clusterSpec.resources}' | jq
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
{
  "cpu": {
    "cores": 4
  },
  "memory": {
    "container": {
      "min": "8Gi",
      "max": "8Gi"
    }
  }
}
----

> --

Reviewer 3: add See also to https://docs.redpanda.com/current/manage/kubernetes/k-manage-resources/#memory

======

In the preceding examples, 4 CPU cores with 8 GiB memory provides a 1:2 ratio (2 GiB per core).

=== No fractional CPU requests

Ensure CPU requests use whole numbers for consistent performance.

Fractional CPUs can lead to performance variability in production. Use whole integer values (`4`, `8`, or `16` are acceptable, while `3.5` or `7.5` are not).

Verify CPU configuration:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get pod <pod-name> -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.containers[?(@.name=="redpanda")].resources.requests.cpu}'
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
4
----

=== Authorization enabled

Verify Kafka authorization is enabled for access control.

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get kafka_enable_authorization -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
true
----
--

> Without authorization enabled, any client can access Kafka APIs without authentication. See xref:manage:security/authorization/index.adoc[Authorization] for configuration details.

Reviewer 3: Should the link come in a See also: to remain consistent with all the others?

----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
overprovisioned: false
----

Overprovisioned mode bypasses critical resource checks and should never be enabled in production. This mode is intended only for development environments with constrained resources.

Verify in Helm values that `resources.cpu.overprovisioned` is not explicitly set to `true` (it's automatically calculated based on CPU allocation).

=== TLS enabled

Configure TLS encryption for all client and inter-broker communication. TLS prevents eavesdropping and man-in-the-middle attacks on network traffic.

Verify TLS is enabled on all listeners:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config export -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism> | grep -A 10 "kafka_api:"
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
redpanda:
  kafka_api:
    - address: 0.0.0.0
      port: 9093
      name: internal
      authentication_method: sasl
  kafka_api_tls:
    - name: internal
      enabled: true
      cert_file: /etc/tls/certs/tls.crt
      key_file: /etc/tls/certs/tls.key
----

> **Required TLS listeners:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Required TLS listeners include:
```

* **kafka_api** - Client connections to Kafka API
* **admin_api** - Administrative REST API access
* **rpc_server** - Inter-broker communication
* **schema_registry** - Schema Registry API (if used)

Verify certificates are properly mounted:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- ls -la /etc/tls/certs/
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
total 16
-rw-r--r-- 1 redpanda redpanda 1234 Dec 15 10:00 ca.crt
-rw-r--r-- 1 redpanda redpanda 1675 Dec 15 10:00 tls.crt
-rw------- 1 redpanda redpanda 1704 Dec 15 10:00 tls.key
----

See also: xref:manage:kubernetes/security/tls/index.adoc[TLS Encryption]

=== Authentication enabled

Configure appropriate authentication mechanisms to control access to Redpanda resources.

Verify SASL users are configured:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk acl user list -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
USERNAME
admin
app-producer
app-consumer
monitoring
----

> **Authentication requirements:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Be sure to adhere to the following authentication requirements:
```

* Set up SASL authentication for client connections

> * Configure TLS certificates for encryption (see TLS configuration above)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Configure TLS certificates for encryption (see preceding TLS configuration guidance)
```

Reviewer 3: Just mentioned this to someone else today - Google style (this is a longstanding technical writing convention, at least since 508 accessibility guidelines came out) also indicates: 
Don't use directional language to orient the reader, such as above, below, or right-hand side. Phrases like those don't work well for accessibility or for localization. If a UI element is hard to find, provide a screenshot.

Recommended: Click menu Menu.

Not recommended: In the left-side panel, click the button with three lines.

----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
PRINCIPAL       HOST  RESOURCE-TYPE  RESOURCE-NAME      OPERATION  PERMISSION
User:app-producer  *     TOPIC          orders.*          WRITE      ALLOW
User:app-consumer  *     TOPIC          orders.*          READ       ALLOW
User:app-consumer  *     GROUP          consumer-group-1  READ       ALLOW
----

See also:

* xref:manage:kubernetes/security/authentication/k-authentication.adoc[Authentication]
* xref:manage:security/authorization/index.adoc[Authorization]

=== Network security

Secure network access to the cluster using Kubernetes-native controls.

Verify NetworkPolicies are configured:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get networkpolicy -n <namespace>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME                          POD-SELECTOR                        AGE
redpanda-allow-internal       app.kubernetes.io/name=redpanda    10d
redpanda-allow-clients        app.kubernetes.io/name=redpanda    10d
redpanda-deny-all-ingress     app.kubernetes.io/name=redpanda    10d
----

Check NetworkPolicy rules:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl describe networkpolicy -n <namespace>
----

> **Network security requirements:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Be sure to satisfy the following network security requirements:
```

* Verify `topologySpreadConstraints` are configured in your Helm values or Redpanda CR
* Confirm nodes have zone labels (typically `topology.kubernetes.io/zone`)
* Check that brokers are scheduled on nodes in different zones

See also: xref:manage:kubernetes/k-rack-awareness.adoc[Rack Awareness]

=== Operator CRDs (Operator deployments only)

WARNING: If your deployment uses the Redpanda Operator, all required Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) must be installed with compatible versions. Without correct CRDs, the Operator cannot manage the cluster, leading to configuration drift, failed updates, and potential data loss.

Verify all required CRDs are installed:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get crd | grep redpanda.com
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
clusters.cluster.redpanda.com
topics.cluster.redpanda.com
users.cluster.redpanda.com
schemas.cluster.redpanda.com
----

Required CRDs:

* `clusters.cluster.redpanda.com` - Manages Redpanda cluster configuration
* `topics.cluster.redpanda.com` - Manages topic lifecycle
* `users.cluster.redpanda.com` - Manages SASL users
* `schemas.cluster.redpanda.com` - Manages Schema Registry schemas

> If any CRDs are missing or incompatible with your Operator version, the Operator will fail to reconcile resources.

Reviewer 3: Required CRDs:

* `clusters.cluster.redpanda.com` - Manages Redpanda cluster configuration
* `topics.cluster.redpanda.com` - Manages topic lifecycle
* `users.cluster.redpanda.com` - Manages SASL users
* `schemas.cluster.redpanda.com` - Manages Schema Registry schemas

If any CRDs are missing or incompatible with your Operator version, the Operator will fail to reconcile resources.

^^ Shouldn't this list of required CRDs come before we tell users to verify that they are installed? FIrst thing I thought when I saw check for required CRDs was, well which ones are required? :-) So yeah, maybe switch up the order here.

== Recommended requirements

The Recommended requirements checklist confirms that you can monitor and support your environment on a sustained basis. It includes the following checks:

- You have adhered to day-2 operations best practices.
- You can diagnose and recover from backup issues or failures.
- You have configured monitoring, backup, and security scanning.

=== Deployment method

Verify that the deployment method (Helm or Operator) is correctly identified for your cluster. Understanding your deployment method is important for troubleshooting, upgrades, and configuration management.

[tabs]
======
Helm::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
helm list -n <namespace>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME     NAMESPACE  REVISION  UPDATED                               STATUS    CHART            APP VERSION
redpanda redpanda   1         2024-01-15 10:30:00.123456 -0800 PST deployed  redpanda-5.0.0   v24.1.1
----

> The presence of a Helm release indicates a Helm-managed deployment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The presence of a Helm release (`CHART` displays `redpanda-5.0.0`) indicates a Helm-managed deployment.
```

--

Operator::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get redpanda -n <namespace>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME       READY   STATUS
redpanda   True    Redpanda reconciliation succeeded
----

The presence of a Redpanda custom resource indicates an Operator-managed deployment.
--
======

Knowing your deployment method helps determine which configuration approach to use (Helm values vs. Redpanda CR), how to perform upgrades and rollbacks, where to find deployment logs and troubleshooting information, and which documentation sections apply to your environment. See xref:deploy:redpanda/kubernetes/k-production-workflow.adoc[Production Deployment Workflow] for the complete deployment process.

=== XFS filesystem

Verify that data directories use XFS filesystem for optimal performance.

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- df -khT /var/lib/redpanda/data
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
Filesystem     Type  Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/nvme0n1   xfs   1.8T   14G  1.8T   1% /var/lib/redpanda/data
----
--

> XFS provides better performance characteristics for Redpanda workloads compared to ext4. While ext4 is supported, XFS is strongly recommended for production deployments.

Reviewer 3: See also: https://docs.redpanda.com/current/deploy/redpanda/manual/production/requirements/#storage

----
kubectl get statefulset redpanda -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.template.spec.affinity}' | jq
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
{
  "podAntiAffinity": {
    "requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution": [
      {
        "labelSelector": {
          "matchLabels": {
            "app.kubernetes.io/name": "redpanda"
          }
        },
        "topologyKey": "kubernetes.io/hostname"
      }
    ]
  }
}
----
--

This prevents single node failures from affecting multiple brokers by ensuring each Redpanda Pod runs on a different node.

See also: xref:deploy:redpanda/kubernetes/k-production-deployment.adoc#affinity-rules[Pod Anti-Affinity]

=== Node isolation

Configure taints/tolerations or nodeSelector for workload isolation.

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get statefulset redpanda -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.template.spec.nodeSelector}' | jq
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
{
  "workload-type": "redpanda"
}
----

Isolating Redpanda workloads on dedicated nodes improves performance predictability by preventing resource contention with other applications.

=== Partition balancing

Configure automatic partition balancing across brokers and CPU cores.

> **Continuous Data Balancing**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Continuous Data Balancing
```

xref:manage:cluster-maintenance/continuous-data-balancing.adoc[Continuous Data Balancing] can help you manage production deployments by automatically rebalancing partition replicas across brokers based on disk usage and node changes. It also eliminates manual intervention and prevents performance degradation.

IMPORTANT: You should enable Continuous Data Balancing for all licensed production clusters.

Verify that Continuous Data Balancing is configured:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get partition_autobalancing_mode -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
continuous
----

The `continuous` setting enables automatic partition rebalancing based on:

* Node additions or removals
* High disk usage conditions
* Broker availability changes

Without Continuous Data Balancing, partition distribution becomes skewed over time, leading to hotspots and manual rebalancing operations.

> **Core Balancing**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Core Balancing**
```

xref:manage:cluster-maintenance/cluster-balancing.adoc#intra-broker-partition-balancing[Intra-broker partition balancing] distributes partition replicas across CPU cores within individual brokers.

Check core balancing for CPU core partition distribution:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get core_balancing_on_core_count_change -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
true
----

When enabled, Redpanda continuously rebalances partitions between CPU cores on a broker for optimal resource utilization, which is especially beneficial after broker restarts or configuration changes.

=== System requirements

> Run system checks to validate that you are running an optimal configuration.

Reviewer 3: hmmm...exactly how do we define "optimal configuration"? In other words, run this check, but what should I be looking for, exactly?

When testing bundle generation, watch for permission errors preventing log collection, insufficient disk space for bundle creation, network policies blocking bundle transfer, or RBAC restrictions on accessing Pod logs or exec. Testing bundle generation early ensures this critical troubleshooting tool works when you need it most. Debug bundles are often required by Redpanda support to diagnose production issues efficiently.

See also: xref:manage:kubernetes/troubleshooting/k-diagnostics-bundle.adoc[Diagnostics Bundles in Kubernetes]

=== Tiered Storage

Configure xref:manage:kubernetes/tiered-storage/k-tiered-storage.adoc[Tiered Storage] for extended data retention using object storage. Tiered Storage automatically offloads older data to cloud storage (S3, GCS, Azure Blob), enabling extended retention without expanding local disk capacity.

Verify Tiered Storage configuration:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get cloud_storage_enabled -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
true
----

> **Benefits of Tiered Storage:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Tiered Storage benefits
```

* Reduced local storage costs from offloading cold data to cheaper object storage
* Longer data retention periods without provisioning additional disk
* Required for advanced features like Remote Read Replicas and Iceberg integration
* Disaster recovery capabilities through cloud-backed data

To verify your Tiered Storage configuration:

.Input
[,bash]
----
# Check bucket configuration
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get cloud_storage_bucket -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>

# Check region/endpoint
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get cloud_storage_region -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

See also: xref:manage:kubernetes/tiered-storage/k-tiered-storage.adoc[Tiered Storage]

=== Security scanning

Regularly scan container images and configurations for vulnerabilities to maintain security.

> **Container image scanning:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Container image scanning
```

Verify that container images are scanned before deployment:

.Input
[,bash]
----
# Check current image in use
kubectl get statefulset redpanda -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.template.spec.containers[?(@.name=="redpanda")].image}'
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
docker.redpanda.com/redpandadata/redpanda:v24.2.4
----

> **Security scanning best practices:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Security scanning best practices

Security scanning best practices include:

```

* Scan images using tools like Trivy, Snyk, or cloud-native scanners before deployment
* Set up automated scanning in CI/CD pipelines
* Monitor for CVE announcements and security advisories
* Keep Redpanda and related components up-to-date with security patches (see xref:upgrade:k-rolling-upgrade.adoc[Rolling Upgrades])
* Review Kubernetes RBAC policies and ServiceAccount permissions (see xref:manage:kubernetes/security/authorization/k-role-controller.adoc[Role Controller])

> **Configuration scanning:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Configuration scanning

To scan your Kubernetes configuration:
```

.Input
[,bash]
----
# Scan Kubernetes manifests
kubectl get redpanda,statefulset,deployment -n <namespace> -o yaml > cluster-config.yaml
# Use kubesec, kube-bench, or similar tools to scan cluster-config.yaml
----

Establish a regular cadence for security scanning (for example, weekly or with each deployment).

=== Backup and recovery

Implement and test backup and recovery processes to ensure business continuity.

> **Backup strategy with Tiered Storage:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Backup strategy with Tiered Storage
```

Tiered Storage provides built-in backup capabilities by storing data in object storage. Verify Tiered Storage is configured:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get cloud_storage_enabled -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

> **Recovery testing:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Recovery testing
```

See also:

* xref:manage:kubernetes/tiered-storage/k-whole-cluster-restore.adoc[Whole Cluster Restore]
* xref:manage:kubernetes/shadowing/k-shadow-linking.adoc[Configure Shadowing]
* xref:manage:kubernetes/shadowing/k-failover-runbook.adoc[Shadowing Failover Runbook]

=== Audit logging

Enable and configure audit logging for compliance and security monitoring requirements.

Verify your audit log configuration:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get audit_enabled -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
true
----

Check to ensure you know where audit logs are being written:

.Input
[,bash]
----
# Check audit log topic
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk topic list -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism> | grep audit
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----

> _redpanda.audit_log    1    3

Reviewer 3: it is unclear from these results exactly what 1 and 3 indicate here. Can you help users quickly understand what they are looking for here? Maybe add something like, "The output values of `1` and `3` here indicate"....what?

= Production Readiness Checklist
:description: Comprehensive checklist for validating Redpanda deployments in Kubernetes against production readiness standards.
:page-context-links: [{"name": "Linux", "to": "deploy:redpanda/linux/index.adoc" },{"name": "Kubernetes", "to": "deploy:redpanda/kubernetes/index.adoc" } ]

> :page-categories: Production, Deployment

Reviewer 3: Am I correct in assuming that you do not have learning objectives because they would essentially be the same as all the items in each segment of this checklist?

Reviewer 2: that's correct. But we can add a broad objective for the overall page.

Reviewer 3: There's no learning objective for the Linux page though

Before running a production workload on Redpanda in Kubernetes, follow this readiness checklist.

NOTE: For Linux deployments, see the xref:deploy:redpanda/manual/production/production-readiness.adoc[Production Readiness Checklist for Linux].

== Critical requirements

> The Critical requirements checklist helps you to confirm that:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Critical requirements checklist helps ensure that:
```

- All required defaults and configuration items are specified.
- You have the optimal hardware setup.
- Security is enabled.
- You are set up to run in production.

=== Redpanda license

> Validate Enterprise license if using Enterprise features.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If using Enterprise features, validate that you are using a valid Enterprise license:
```

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster license info -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
LICENSE INFORMATION
===================
Organization:      Your Company Name
Type:              enterprise
Expires:           Dec 31 2026
----
--

> Production deployments using Enterprise features (Tiered Storage, Schema Registry, Continuous Data Balancing, etc.) must have a valid Enterprise license with sufficient expiration date.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Production deployments using Enterprise features (such as Tiered Storage, Schema Registry, or Continuous Data Balancing) must have a valid Enterprise license with a sufficient expiration date.
```

# Without SASL authentication
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster health
----

Common SASL mechanisms are `SCRAM-SHA-256` or `SCRAM-SHA-512`. Update these values as needed for your deployment.
====

=== Cluster health

Check that all brokers are connected and running. Run xref:reference:rpk/rpk-cluster/rpk-cluster-health.adoc[`rpk cluster health`] to check the health of the cluster. No nodes should be down, and there should be zero leaderless or under-replicated partitions.

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster health -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
CLUSTER HEALTH OVERVIEW
=======================
Healthy:                          true
Unhealthy reasons:                []
Controller ID:                    0
All nodes:                        [0 1 2]
Nodes down:                       []
Leaderless partitions (0):        []
Under-replicated partitions (0):  []
----
--

=== Minimum broker count

> Ensure at least 3 brokers are running for production fault tolerance.

Reviewer 3: Is this a hard requirement? I ask because if it is, then I would update to: 
You must have at least three brokers running to ensure production-level fault tolerance.

Note that if the number is under 10, we usually write it out. https://developers.google.com/style/numbers#numbers-as-words

Reviewer 2: for production workload, yes, it's a hard-req

> Production clusters should have odd numbers of brokers (3, 5, 7, etc.) for optimal consensus behavior.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Production clusters should have an odd number of brokers (3, 5, 7, etc.) for optimal consensus behavior.
```

Verify the running broker count:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -n <namespace> -l app.kubernetes.io/component=redpanda-statefulset
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
redpanda-0   2/2     Running   0          10d
redpanda-1   2/2     Running   0          10d
redpanda-2   2/2     Running   0          10d
----

Verify the configured replica count in your deployment:

[tabs]
======
Helm::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
helm get values redpanda -n <namespace> | grep -A 1 "statefulset:"
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
statefulset:
  replicas: 3
----
--

Operator::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get redpanda redpanda -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.clusterSpec.statefulset.replicas}'
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
3
----
--
======

=== Active broker membership

> Verify all brokers are in active state and not being decommissioned.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Verify that all brokers are in active state and not being decommissioned.
```

> Decommissioning is used to permanently remove a broker from the cluster, such as during node pool migrations or cluster downsizing. Brokers in decommissioned state should not be present in production clusters unless actively performing a planned migration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Decommissioning is used to permanently remove a broker from the cluster, such as during node pool migrations or cluster downsizing. Brokers in a decommissioned state should not be present in production clusters unless actively performing a planned migration.
```

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk redpanda admin brokers list -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NODE-ID  NUM-CORES  MEMBERSHIP-STATUS  IS-ALIVE  BROKER-VERSION
0        4          active             true      v24.2.4
1        4          active             true      v24.2.4
2        4          active             true      v24.2.4
----

> All brokers must show `active` status. If any broker shows `draining` or `decommissioned`, investigate immediately.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All brokers must show `active` status. If any broker shows the status `draining` or `decommissioned`, investigate immediately.
```

> See also: xref:manage:cluster-maintenance/decommission-brokers.adoc[Decommission Brokers]

Reviewer 3: This link takes users to the linux prod checklist and out of the k8s context. Intended? I've come across a couple links where I clicked and found myself in the linux checklist and was confused about why I had switched contexts.

Reviewer 2: changed to k8s when appropriate

=== No brokers in maintenance mode

Check that no brokers are in maintenance mode during normal operations.

Maintenance mode is used when modifying brokers that will remain as members of the cluster, such as during rolling upgrades or hardware maintenance. While necessary during planned maintenance windows, brokers should not remain in maintenance mode during normal operations.

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster maintenance status -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NODE-ID  ENABLED  FINISHED  ERRORS  PARTITIONS  ELIGIBLE  TRANSFERRING  FAILED
0        false    -         -       -           -         -             -
1        false    -         -       -           -         -             -
2        false    -         -       -           -         -             -
----

All brokers should show `ENABLED: false`. If any broker shows `ENABLED: true` outside of a planned maintenance window, investigate immediately.

> See also: xref:manage:node-management.adoc#place-a-broker-in-maintenance-mode[Maintenance Mode]

Reviewer 3: This link takes users out of the k8s production checklist context and places them in the linux checklist context. Shouldn't this stick with k8s?

Reviewer 2: changed to k8s when appropriate

=== Consistent Redpanda version

Check that Redpanda is running the https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda/releases[latest point release^] for the major version you're on and that all brokers run the same version.

**Verify Redpanda broker versions:**

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk redpanda admin brokers list -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NODE-ID  NUM-CORES  MEMBERSHIP-STATUS  IS-ALIVE  BROKER-VERSION
0        4          active             true      v25.2.4
1        4          active             true      v25.2.4
2        4          active             true      v25.2.4
----

> All brokers must show the same `BROKER-VERSION`. Version mismatches between brokers can cause compatibility issues and must be resolved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All brokers must show the same `BROKER-VERSION`. Version mismatches between brokers can cause compatibility issues and must be resolved before advancing to production.
```

**Verify Helm Chart or Operator version compatibility:**

For Kubernetes deployments, you must also verify that your deployment tool (Helm Chart or Operator) version is compatible with your Redpanda version. The Helm Chart or Operator version must be within one minor version of the Redpanda version.

For example, if running Redpanda v25.2.x, the Helm Chart or Operator version must be v25.1.x, v25.2.x, or v25.3.x.

[tabs]
======
Helm::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
helm list -n <namespace>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME     NAMESPACE  REVISION  UPDATED                               STATUS    CHART            APP VERSION
redpanda redpanda   1         2024-01-15 10:30:00.123456 -0800 PST deployed  redpanda-5.2.4   v25.2.4
----

> The `CHART` column shows the Helm Chart version (e.g., `redpanda-5.2.4`), which should be compatible with the `APP VERSION` (Redpanda version).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `CHART` column shows the Helm Chart version (for example, `redpanda-5.2.4`), which should be compatible with the `APP VERSION` (Redpanda version).
```

Reviewer 3: https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#eg

--

Operator::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get deployment redpanda-controller-manager -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.template.spec.containers[0].image}'
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
docker.redpanda.com/redpandadata/redpanda-operator:v25.2.4
----

> The Operator version is shown in the image tag (e.g., `v25.2.4`), which should be compatible with your Redpanda broker version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Operator version is shown in the image tag (for example, `v25.2.4`), which should be compatible with your Redpanda broker version.
```

You can also check the Operator version using:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get redpanda redpanda -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.metadata.annotations.redpanda\.com/operator-version}'
----
--
======

**Version compatibility requirements:**

* All Redpanda brokers must run the same version

> * Helm Chart or Operator version must be within ±1 minor version of Redpanda version

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The Helm Chart or Operator version must be within ±1 minor version of Redpanda version
```

* Example: Redpanda v25.2.x requires Helm/Operator v25.1.x, v25.2.x, or v25.3.x
* Running incompatible versions can lead to deployment failures or cluster instability

=== Version pinning

> WARNING: Pin specific versions for Redpanda and all related components (Console, Connectors) to prevent unexpected automatic upgrades that could introduce breaking changes or cause downtime during unplanned updates.

Reviewer 3: It's not clear why this is a warning...seems more like a Tip.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TIP: Pin specific versions for Redpanda and all related components (Console, Connectors) to prevent unexpected automatic upgrades that could introduce breaking changes or cause downtime during unplanned updates.
```

Verify that versions are explicitly pinned in your deployment configuration:

[tabs]
======
Helm::
+
--
[,yaml]
----
image:
  tag: v24.2.4  # Pin specific Redpanda version

console:
  enabled: true
  image:
    tag: v2.4.5  # Pin specific Console version

connectors:
  enabled: true
  image:
    tag: v1.0.15  # Pin specific Connectors version
----

> Verify pinned versions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Verify pinned versions:

```

Reviewer 3: Need the extra return to ensure that Input renders correctly.

.Input
[,bash]
----
helm get values redpanda -n <namespace>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
image:
  tag: v24.2.4
console:
  image:
    tag: v2.4.5
connectors:
  image:
    tag: v1.0.15
----
--

Operator::
+
--
[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cluster.redpanda.com/v1alpha2
kind: Redpanda
metadata:
  name: redpanda
spec:
  clusterSpec:
    image:
      tag: v24.2.4  # Pin specific Redpanda version

  console:
    enabled: true
    image:
      tag: v2.4.5  # Pin specific Console version

  connectors:
    enabled: true
    image:
      tag: v1.0.15  # Pin specific Connectors version
----

> Verify pinned versions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Verify pinned versions:

```

Reviewer 3: To ensure Input renders correctly ^^ extra return

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get redpanda redpanda -n <namespace> -o yaml | grep -A 1 "tag:"
----
--
======

> **Why this matters**:

Reviewer 3: Not entirely clear what "this" is referring to here.
How about: 
**Leadership pinning benefits**:

Reviewer 2: changed to narrative version

> * Prevents automatic upgrades during unintended times (e.g., during high-traffic periods)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Prevents automatic upgrades during unintended times (for example, during high-traffic periods)
```

* Ensures all environments (dev/staging/prod) run the same tested versions
* Allows controlled upgrade testing in non-production environments first
* Avoids compatibility issues between Redpanda and its components

> * Provides rollback capability to known-good versions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Provides rollback capability to known versions
```

**Avoid using**:
* `latest` tag - always pulls the newest version
* Version ranges (e.g., `v24.2.x`) - may auto-update to patch releases

> * Unspecified tags - defaults to latest or chart-defined versions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Avoid using**:

* `latest` tag: always pulls the newest version
* Version ranges (for example, `v24.2.x`): may auto-update to patch releases
* Unspecified tags: defaults to latest or chart-defined versions
```

> === Default topic replication factor (≥3)

Reviewer 3: Kind of odd that the default value is in the heading. I would not include like this.

Reviewer 2: Thought that I removed it before. Removing now

> === Default topic replication factor (≥3)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Default topic replication factor
```

> Check that the default replication factor is set appropriately for production.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Check that the default replication factor (≥3) is set appropriately for production.
```

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get default_topic_replications -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
3
----
--

> Setting `default_topic_replications` to 3 or greater ensures new topics are created with adequate fault tolerance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Setting `default_topic_replications` to `3` or greater ensures new topics are created with adequate fault tolerance.
```

> See also: xref:develop:config-topics.adoc#choose-the-replication-factor[Choose the Replication Factor]

Reviewer 3: Link takes users to the Linux context, and out of the k8s context. Please fix.

Reviewer 2: changed to k8s when appropriate

> === Existing topics replication factor (≥3)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Existing topics replication factor
```

> Check that all existing topics have adequate replication.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Check that all existing topics have adequate replication (default is `3`).
```

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk topic list -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME              PARTITIONS  REPLICAS
_schemas          1           3
orders            12          3
payments          8           3
user-events       16          3
----
--

All production topics should have `REPLICAS` of 3 or greater. Topics with single-digit replication are at risk of data loss if a broker fails.

See also: xref:manage:cluster-maintenance/topic-property-configuration.adoc#change-topic-replication-factor[Change Topic Replication Factor]

=== Persistent storage configuration

> Verify using persistent storage (not hostPath or emptyDir) for data persistence.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Verify that you have configured persistent storage (not hostPath or emptyDir) for data persistence.
```

[.side-by-side]
--

> .Input

Reviewer 3: Need an extra return to make Input render properly

Reviewer: Is it:

1:
```
[.side-by-side]

--
1 .Input
```

2:
```
[.side-by-side]
--

1 .Input
```

3:
```
[.side-by-side]
--
1 .Input

```

datadir-redpanda-2      Bound    pvc-c3d4e5f6-g7h8-9012-cdef-gh3456789012   100Gi      RWO            fast-ssd       10d
----
--

Verify the StatefulSet uses PersistentVolumeClaims:
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl describe statefulset -n <namespace> redpanda | grep -A 5 "Volume Claims"
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
Volume Claims:
  Name:          datadir
  StorageClass:  fast-ssd
  Labels:        <none>
  Annotations:   <none>
  Capacity:      100Gi
----

HostPath and emptyDir storage are not suitable for production as they lack durability guarantees.

=== RAID/LVM stripe configuration (multiple disks only)

If using multiple physical disks, verify they are configured as RAID-0 or LVM stripe (not linear/concat).

.Input
[,bash]
----
# Check block device configuration on nodes
kubectl debug node/<node-name> -it -- chroot /host /bin/bash
lsblk -o NAME,TYPE,SIZE,MOUNTPOINT,FSTYPE
lvs -o lv_name,stripes,stripe_size
mdadm --detail /dev/md*  # if using software RAID
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
# lsblk output
NAME          TYPE  SIZE   MOUNTPOINT        FSTYPE
nvme0n1       disk  1.8T
nvme1n1       disk  1.8T
vg0-data      lvm   3.6T   /var/lib/redpanda xfs

> # lvs output - note stripes > 1 indicates striping

Reviewer 3: not sure if you intend striping (adding lines or patterns on top of something) or stripping (removing something).

Reviewer 2: added long explanation "If using multiple physical disks, verify they are configured to stripe data across the disks as RAID-0 or LVM stripe (not linear/concat). Striping distributes data across multiple disks in parallel for improved I/O performance."

LV    #Stripes StripeSize
data  2        256.00k
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
# mdadm output
/dev/md0:
    Raid Level : raid0
    Array Size : 3515625472 (3.27 TiB)
  Raid Devices : 2

    Number   Major   Minor   RaidDevice State
       0     259        0        0      active sync   /dev/nvme0n1
       1     259        1        1      active sync   /dev/nvme1n1
----

Using LVM linear/concat or JBOD instead of stripe/RAID-0 across multiple disks will severely degrade performance. Each disk must be striped for optimal I/O throughput. Single disk configurations do not require striping.

=== Storage performance requirements

Ensure storage classes provide adequate IOPS and throughput for your workload.

**Performance specifications:**

* Use NVMe-based storage classes for production deployments

> * Minimum 16,000 IOPS (Input/Output Operations Per Second) required

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Specify a minimum 16,000 IOPS (Input/Output Operations Per Second)
```

* Consider provisioned IOPS where available to meet or exceed the minimum

> * Enabling xref:develop:config-topics.adoc#configure-write-caching[write caching] can help Redpanda perform better in environments with disks that don't meet the recommended IOPS

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Enable xref:develop:config-topics.adoc#configure-write-caching[write caching] to help Redpanda perform better in environments with disks that don't meet the recommended IOPS
```

* NFS (Network File System) is not supported
* Test storage performance under load

> **Multi-tenant disk warning:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

WARNING: Avoid cloud instance types that use multi-tenant or shared disks, as these can lead to unpredictable performance due to noisy neighbor effects. Examples of instances with shared/multi-tenant storage include AWS is4gen.xlarge and similar instance types across cloud providers. Instead, use instances with dedicated local NVMe storage or provisioned IOPS volumes that guarantee consistent performance.

Multi-tenant disks can experience:

* Unpredictable latency spikes from other tenants' workloads
* Inconsistent throughput that varies based on neighbor activity
* IOPS throttling that impacts Redpanda's performance
* Difficulty troubleshooting performance issues due to external factors

See also:

> * xref:deploy:redpanda/kubernetes/k-requirements.adoc#storage[Storage requirements]

Reviewer 3: Link takes users out of k8s context and into linux checklist.

* xref:deploy:redpanda/kubernetes/k-requirements.adoc#cloud-instance-types[Cloud Instance Types]

> **Volume sizing**:: Plan storage capacity for data growth and retention requirements.

Reviewer 3: This should not appear in See also
Try to work it into an appropriate context

+
* Account for replication overhead
* Include space for compaction operations

> * Monitor disk usage trends

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Account for replication overhead
* Include space for compaction operations
* Monitor disk usage trends
```

These are not See also links. Looks like it may be a mistake paste from somewhere? Please remove.

=== CPU and memory resource limits

Verify pods have resource requests and limits configured.

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get pod <pod-name> -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.containers[?(@.name=="redpanda")].resources}' | jq
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
{
  "limits": {
    "cpu": "4",
    "memory": "8Gi"
  },
  "requests": {
    "cpu": "4",
    "memory": "8Gi"
  }
}
----
--

All Redpanda pods must have:

* CPU requests and limits configured and **identical** (`requests.cpu == limits.cpu`)

> * Memory requests and limits configured and **identical** (`requests.memory == limits.memory`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Identical** CPU requests and limits (`requests.cpu == limits.cpu`)
* **Identical** memory requests and limits (`requests.memory == limits.memory`)
```

Setting requests equal to limits ensures the Pod receives the `Guaranteed` QoS class, which prevents CPU throttling and reduces the risk of Pod eviction.

See also: xref:manage:kubernetes/k-manage-resources.adoc[Manage Pod Resources]

=== CPU to memory ratio

Ensure adequate memory allocation relative to CPU for optimal performance.

Production deployments should provision at least 2 GiB of memory per CPU core. The ratio should be at least 1:2 (2 GiB per core).

Verify the CPU to memory ratio in your configuration:

[tabs]
======
Helm::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
helm get values redpanda -n <namespace> | grep -A 2 "resources:"
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
resources:
  cpu:
    cores: 4
  memory:
    container:
      min: 8Gi
      max: 8Gi
----
--

Operator::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get redpanda redpanda -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.clusterSpec.resources}' | jq
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
{
  "cpu": {
    "cores": 4
  },
  "memory": {
    "container": {
      "min": "8Gi",
      "max": "8Gi"
    }
  }
}
----
--
======

> In the examples above, 4 CPU cores with 8 GiB memory provides a 1:2 ratio (2 GiB per core).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the preceding examples, 4 CPU cores with 8 GiB memory provides a 1:2 ratio (2 GiB per core).
```

=== No fractional CPU requests

Ensure CPU requests use whole numbers for consistent performance.

> Fractional CPUs can lead to performance variability in production. Use whole integer values (4, 8, 16 - not 3.5, 7.5).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Fractional CPUs can lead to performance variability in production. Use whole integer values (4, 8, or 16 are acceptable, while 3.5 or 7.5 are not).
```

Verify CPU configuration:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get pod <pod-name> -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.containers[?(@.name=="redpanda")].resources.requests.cpu}'
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
4
----

> Avoid fractional values like `3500m` (3.5 cores) or `7500m` (7.5 cores).

Reviewer 3: ^^ You just made this point about not using fractional value before the example. Seems repetitive/redundant to say again here.

> **Resource capacity planning**:: Ensure nodes have adequate resources for the configured limits.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Be sure to complete resource capacity planning, which helps to ensure nodes have adequate resources for the configured limits:
```

* **rpc_server** - Inter-broker communication
* **schema_registry** - Schema Registry API (if used)

Verify certificates are properly mounted:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- ls -la /etc/tls/certs/
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
total 16
-rw-r--r-- 1 redpanda redpanda 1234 Dec 15 10:00 ca.crt
-rw-r--r-- 1 redpanda redpanda 1675 Dec 15 10:00 tls.crt
-rw------- 1 redpanda redpanda 1704 Dec 15 10:00 tls.key
----

See also: xref:manage:security/encryption.adoc[TLS Encryption]

=== Authentication enabled

Configure appropriate authentication mechanisms to control access to Redpanda resources.

Verify SASL users are configured:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk acl user list -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
USERNAME
admin
app-producer
app-consumer
monitoring
----

**Authentication requirements:**

* Set up SASL authentication for client connections
* Configure TLS certificates for encryption (see TLS configuration above)
* Implement proper user management with principle of least privilege

> * Configure ACLs (Access Control Lists) for resource authorization

Reviewer 3: add link to ACL section

----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
PRINCIPAL       HOST  RESOURCE-TYPE  RESOURCE-NAME      OPERATION  PERMISSION
User:app-producer  *     TOPIC          orders.*          WRITE      ALLOW
User:app-consumer  *     TOPIC          orders.*          READ       ALLOW
User:app-consumer  *     GROUP          consumer-group-1  READ       ALLOW
----

See also:

* xref:manage:security/authentication.adoc[Authentication]
* xref:manage:security/authorization/index.adoc[Authorization]

=== Network security

Secure network access to the cluster using Kubernetes-native controls.

Verify NetworkPolicies are configured:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get networkpolicy -n <namespace>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME                          POD-SELECTOR                        AGE
redpanda-allow-internal       app.kubernetes.io/name=redpanda    10d
redpanda-allow-clients        app.kubernetes.io/name=redpanda    10d
redpanda-deny-all-ingress     app.kubernetes.io/name=redpanda    10d
----

Check NetworkPolicy rules:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl describe networkpolicy -n <namespace>
----

> **Network security requirements:**

Reviewer 3: Please link to detailed topics when they exist. It will save users from having to search items in these lists.

* Configure NetworkPolicies to restrict pod-to-pod communication

> * Use TLS for all client connections (see TLS configuration)

Reviewer 3: link to TLS config

> * Secure admin API endpoints with authentication and authorization

Reviewer 3: link to these endpoints in API doc. Should it be Admin API endpoints?

* Limit ingress traffic to only necessary ports and sources
* Use Kubernetes Services to control external access

Verify services and exposed ports:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get svc -n <namespace>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME               TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)
redpanda           ClusterIP      None            <none>        9093/TCP,9644/TCP,8082/TCP
redpanda-external  LoadBalancer   10.100.200.50   <pending>     9093:30001/TCP
----

See also: xref:manage:security/listener-configuration.adoc[Listener Configuration]

=== Pod Disruption Budget

Set up PDBs to control voluntary disruptions during maintenance.

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get pdb -n <namespace>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME       MIN AVAILABLE   MAX UNAVAILABLE   ALLOWED DISRUPTIONS   AGE
redpanda   N/A             1                 1                     10d
----
--

Production deployments must have a PodDisruptionBudget with `maxUnavailable: 1` to prevent simultaneous broker disruptions during voluntary operations like node drains, upgrades, or autoscaler actions.

> See also: xref:manage:kubernetes/k-pod-disruption-budgets.adoc[Pod Disruption Budgets]

Reviewer 3: Bad link - fails to take users to this topic. Instead, it takes us to the top of the Production Readiness Checklist

Reviewer 3: I'm curious how this build worked with broken links. I thought @JakeSCahill updated that rule.

Reviewer 2: link doesn't even exist. Linked to k8s doc on it.

=== Rack awareness and topology spread

Configure topology spread constraints to distribute brokers across availability zones.

> Verify pod distribution across zones:

Reviewer 3: You need a link to some of the configurations you say are required. There should be a link to configuring AZs for k8s somewhere in here (https://docs.redpanda.com/current/deploy/redpanda/kubernetes/k-high-availability/#multi-az-deployment)

> Verify pod distribution across zones:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Verify Pod distribution across zones:
```

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get pod -n <namespace> -o wide
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME         READY   STATUS    NODE                          ZONE
redpanda-0   2/2     Running   node-us-west-2a-1.internal    us-west-2a
redpanda-1   2/2     Running   node-us-west-2b-1.internal    us-west-2b

> redpanda-2   2/2     Running   node-us-west-2c-1.internal    us-west-2c

Reviewer 3: What, exactly, does the output need to show? Okay to be running in any of the same zones? Do all have to be different? If we tell them to verify Pod distribution, we should be clear about what is acceptable and what is not.

----

> Check node availability zone labels:

Reviewer 3: Check for what?

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get nodes --show-labels | grep topology.kubernetes.io/zone
----

> **Configuration requirements:**

Reviewer 3: Not a fan of these bold requirement headings followed by lists, especially when the list items do not link to content that helps users understand how to meet the requirement. In fact, I think every production check that is dependent on some config or another should include a link to those topics.

> * Configure `topologySpreadConstraints` to spread pods across zones

Reviewer 3: In k8s land, I think it is always Pod/Pods

* Use node labels for availability zone awareness (typically `topology.kubernetes.io/zone`)

> * Prevents single zone failures from affecting multiple brokers

Reviewer 3: This list item is not really parallel with the others here. Configure..., then Use... and here Prevents. The first two are things the user _does_. The last one is not.

See also: xref:manage:kubernetes/k-rack-awareness.adoc[Rack Awareness]

=== Operator CRDs (Operator deployments only)

WARNING: If your deployment uses the Redpanda Operator, all required Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) must be installed with compatible versions. Without correct CRDs, the Operator cannot manage the cluster, leading to configuration drift, failed updates, and potential data loss.

> Verify all required CRDs are installed:

Reviewer 3: Provide a link to https://docs.redpanda.com/current/reference/k-crd-index/

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get crd | grep redpanda.com
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
clusters.cluster.redpanda.com
topics.cluster.redpanda.com
users.cluster.redpanda.com
schemas.cluster.redpanda.com
----

Required CRDs:

* `clusters.cluster.redpanda.com` - Manages Redpanda cluster configuration
* `topics.cluster.redpanda.com` - Manages topic lifecycle
* `users.cluster.redpanda.com` - Manages SASL users
* `schemas.cluster.redpanda.com` - Manages Schema Registry schemas

If any CRDs are missing or incompatible with your Operator version, the Operator will fail to reconcile resources.

=== Run Redpanda tuners

Check that you have configured tuners for optimal performance. Tuners can significantly impact latency and throughput. In Kubernetes, tuners are configured through the Helm chart or may need to be run on worker nodes themselves. For details, see xref:deploy:redpanda/kubernetes/k-tune-workers.adoc[Tune Kubernetes Worker Nodes for Production].

== Recommended requirements

> The Recommended requirements checklist confirms that you can monitor and support your environment on a sustained basis. It includes the following checks:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Recommended requirements checklist ensures that you can monitor and support your environment on a sustained basis. It includes the following checks:
```

Reviewer 3: Instead of "It includes the following checks" maybe: 
The Recommended requirements checklist ensures that you can monitor and support your environment on a sustained basis, and is appropriate for instances when you need to:
- Ensure adherence to day-2 operation best practices
- Diagnose and recover from backup issues or failures
- Configure monitoring, backup, and security scanning

Reviewer 2: applied suggestion

> - You have adhered to day-2 operations best practices.
> - You can diagnose and recover from issues or failures.
> - You have configured monitoring, backup, and security scanning.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Your cluster adheres to day-2 operations best practices.
- You can diagnose and recover from issues or failures.
- You have configured monitoring, backup, and security scanning.
```

=== Deployment method

> Verify that the deployment method (Helm or Operator) is correctly identified for your cluster. Understanding your deployment method is important for troubleshooting, upgrades, and configuration management.

Reviewer 3: Please add a link to https://deploy-preview-1352--redpanda-docs-preview.netlify.app/current/deploy/redpanda/kubernetes/k-production-workflow/

[tabs]
======
Helm::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
helm list -n <namespace>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME     NAMESPACE  REVISION  UPDATED                               STATUS    CHART            APP VERSION
redpanda redpanda   1         2024-01-15 10:30:00.123456 -0800 PST deployed  redpanda-5.0.0   v24.1.1
----

The presence of a Helm release indicates a Helm-managed deployment.
--

Operator::
+
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get redpanda -n <namespace>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
NAME       READY   STATUS
redpanda   True    Redpanda reconciliation succeeded
----

The presence of a Redpanda custom resource indicates an Operator-managed deployment.
--
======

> **Why this matters**: Knowing your deployment method helps determine:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Understanding and verifying your deployment method helps you determine:
```

* Which configuration approach to use (Helm values vs. Redpanda CR)
* How to perform upgrades and rollbacks
* Where to find deployment logs and troubleshooting information
* Which documentation sections apply to your environment

=== XFS filesystem

> Verify data directories use XFS filesystem for optimal performance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Verify that data directories use XFS filesystem for optimal performance.
```

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- df -khT /var/lib/redpanda/data
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
Filesystem     Type  Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/nvme0n1   xfs   1.8T   14G  1.8T   1% /var/lib/redpanda/data
----
--

XFS provides better performance characteristics for Redpanda workloads compared to ext4. While ext4 is supported, XFS is strongly recommended for production deployments.

> **Storage performance tuning**:: Optimize storage configuration for production workloads.

Reviewer 3: This seems out of place. Why are we introducing storage tuning in the middle of the XFS verification check?

+
* Configure appropriate `vm.swappiness` settings
* Tune filesystem mount options
* Consider storage class performance characteristics

=== Pod anti-affinity

> Configure pod anti-affinity to spread brokers across nodes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Configure Pod anti-affinity to spread brokers across nodes.
```

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get statefulset redpanda -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.template.spec.affinity}' | jq
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
{
  "podAntiAffinity": {
    "requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution": [
      {
        "labelSelector": {
          "matchLabels": {
            "app.kubernetes.io/name": "redpanda"
          }
        },
        "topologyKey": "kubernetes.io/hostname"
      }
    ]
  }
}
----
--

This prevents single node failures from affecting multiple brokers by ensuring each Redpanda pod runs on a different node.

> See also: xref:reference:k-redpanda-helm-spec.adoc#statefulset-podantiaffinity[Pod Anti-Affinity]

Reviewer 3: This link is not taking me to https://docs.redpanda.com/current/deploy/redpanda/kubernetes/k-production-deployment/#affinity-rules, where there is helpful guidance for users. The Helm rules it takes me to do not clearly cover anti-affinity.

=== Node isolation

Configure taints/tolerations or nodeSelector for workload isolation.

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get statefulset redpanda -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.template.spec.nodeSelector}' | jq
----

> Example output showing node isolation:

Reviewer 3: Curious why you don't use the Output format you've used throughout this topic?

[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
{
  "workload-type": "redpanda"
}
----

Isolating Redpanda workloads on dedicated nodes improves performance predictability by preventing resource contention with other applications.

> **CPU pinning and NUMA awareness**:: Configure CPU affinity for optimal performance on multi-core systems.

Reviewer 3: These two sections kind of just appear, and offer no clear contextualization for users.

At this point, I'm feeling like there is too heavy a reliance on the bold heading+list approach. This is especially the case when they appear with no clear context. They are a bit cryptic as well, and most lack links guiding users to details about whatever it is you've introduced.

**Memory allocation strategy**:: Optimize memory settings for your workload patterns.

=== Partition balancing

Configure automatic partition balancing across brokers and CPU cores.

**Continuous Data Balancing**

> xref:manage:cluster-maintenance/continuous-data-balancing.adoc[Continuous Data Balancing] is a major benefit of Redpanda for managing production deployments. It automatically rebalances partition replicas across brokers based on disk usage and node changes, eliminating manual intervention and preventing performance degradation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
xref:manage:cluster-maintenance/continuous-data-balancing.adoc[Continuous Data Balancing] can help you manage production deployments by automatically rebalancing partition replicas across brokers based on disk usage and node changes. It also eliminates manual intervention and prevents performance degradation.
```

> **This feature should be enabled for all licensed production clusters.**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: You should enable Continuous Data Balancing for all licensed production clusters.
```

> Check continuous data balancing:

Reviewer 3: Check it for what?

Reviewer 3: Should this be: 
Verify that Continuous Data Balancing is configured:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get partition_autobalancing_mode -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
continuous
----

> Setting this to `continuous` enables automatic partition rebalancing based on:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `continuous` setting enables automatic partition rebalancing based on:
```

* Node additions or removals
* High disk usage conditions
* Broker availability changes

Without Continuous Data Balancing, partition distribution becomes skewed over time, leading to hotspots and manual rebalancing operations.

> **Core Balancing**

Reviewer 3: Please add a link here

Check core balancing for CPU core partition distribution:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get core_balancing_on_core_count_change -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
true
----

> When enabled, Redpanda continuously rebalances partitions between CPU cores on a broker for optimal resource utilization, especially beneficial after broker restarts or configuration changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When enabled, Redpanda continuously rebalances partitions between CPU cores on a broker for optimal resource utilization, which is especially beneficial after broker restarts or configuration changes.
```

=== System requirements

> Run system checks to validate optimal configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run system checks to validate that you are running an optimal configuration.
```

[.side-by-side]
--
.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk redpanda check -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
CONDITION                         REQUIRED       CURRENT   SEVERITY  PASSED
Data directory is writable        true           true      Fatal     true
Free memory per CPU [MB]          >= 2048        8192      Warning   true
NTP Synced                        true           true      Warning   true
Swappiness                        1              1         Warning   true
----
--

Review any failed checks and remediate before proceeding to production. See xref:reference:rpk/rpk-redpanda/rpk-redpanda-check.adoc[rpk redpanda check] for details on each validation.

=== Debug bundle

> Verify that you can successfully generate and collect a debug bundle from your cluster. This proactive check ensures that when an actual issue occurs and you need to contact Redpanda support, you won't face permission issues or silent collection failures that could delay troubleshooting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Verify that you can successfully generate and collect a debug bundle from your cluster. This proactive check ensures that if an issue occurs and you need to contact Redpanda support, you won't face permission issues or silent collection failures that could delay troubleshooting.
```

Generate a debug bundle:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk debug bundle -o /tmp/bundle.zip
----

For additional options and arguments, see xref:reference:rpk/rpk-debug/rpk-debug-bundle.adoc[rpk debug bundle].

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
Creating bundle file...
Collecting cluster info...
Collecting logs...
Collecting configuration...
Debug bundle saved to '/tmp/bundle.zip'
----

> **Why this matters**: Debug bundles collect critical diagnostic information including:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Debug bundles collect critical diagnostic information, including:
```

* Cluster configuration and metadata
* Redpanda logs from all brokers
* System resource usage and performance metrics
* Kubernetes resource definitions

> **Common issues to watch for**:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Common issues to watch for:
```

* Permission errors preventing log collection
* Insufficient disk space for bundle creation
* Network policies blocking bundle transfer

> * RBAC restrictions on accessing pod logs or exec

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* RBAC restrictions accessing Pod logs or exec
```

Testing bundle generation early ensures this critical troubleshooting tool works when you need it most. Debug bundles are often required by Redpanda support to diagnose production issues efficiently.

See also: xref:manage:kubernetes/troubleshooting/k-diagnostics-bundle.adoc[Diagnostics Bundles in Kubernetes]

=== Tiered Storage

> Configure Tiered Storage for extended data retention using object storage. Tiered Storage automatically offloads older data to cloud storage (S3, GCS, Azure Blob), enabling extended retention without expanding local disk capacity.

Reviewer 3: Add a link to https://docs.redpanda.com/current/manage/kubernetes/tiered-storage/k-tiered-storage/

Verify Tiered Storage configuration:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get cloud_storage_enabled -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
true
----

> **Benefits of Tiered Storage:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Benefits of Tiered Storage include:
```

* Reduces local storage costs by offloading cold data to cheaper object storage
* Enables longer data retention periods without provisioning additional disk
* Required for advanced features like Remote Read Replicas and Iceberg integration

> * Provides disaster recovery capabilities through cloud-backed data

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Reduced local storage costs from offloading cold data to cheaper object storage
* Longer data retention periods without provisioning additional disk
* Required for advanced features like Remote Read Replicas and Iceberg integration
* Disaster recovery capabilities through cloud-backed data
```

> **Verification steps:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To verify your Tiered Storage configuration:
```

.Input
[,bash]
----
# Check bucket configuration
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get cloud_storage_bucket -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>

# Check region/endpoint
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get cloud_storage_region -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

> See also: xref:manage:tiered-storage.adoc[Tiered Storage]

Reviewer 3: Use the k8s link instead: https://deploy-preview-1352--redpanda-docs-preview.netlify.app/current/manage/kubernetes/tiered-storage/k-tiered-storage/

=== Security scanning

> Regularly scan container images and configurations for vulnerabilities to maintain security posture.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Regularly scan container images and configurations for vulnerabilities to maintain security.
```

**Container image scanning:**

Verify that container images are scanned before deployment:

.Input
[,bash]
----
# Check current image in use
kubectl get statefulset redpanda -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.template.spec.containers[?(@.name=="redpanda")].image}'
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
docker.redpanda.com/redpandadata/redpanda:v24.2.4
----

> **Security scanning practices:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Security scanning best practices:**
```

> 

Reviewer 3: No links to any of these?

* Scan images using tools like Trivy, Snyk, or cloud-native scanners before deployment
* Set up automated scanning in CI/CD pipelines
* Monitor for CVE announcements and security advisories

> * Keep Redpanda and related components up to date with security patches

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Keep Redpanda and related components up-to-date with security patches
```

* Review Kubernetes RBAC policies and ServiceAccount permissions

**Configuration scanning:**

.Input
[,bash]
----
# Scan Kubernetes manifests
kubectl get redpanda,statefulset,deployment -n <namespace> -o yaml > cluster-config.yaml
# Use kubesec, kube-bench, or similar tools to scan cluster-config.yaml
----

> Establish a regular cadence for security scanning (e.g., weekly or with each deployment).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Establish a regular cadence for security scanning (for example, weekly or with each deployment).
```

> === Backup and recovery

Reviewer 3: Does k8s support Shadowing? I thought it did--if so, shouldn't you link to it?

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get cloud_storage_enabled -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

**Recovery testing:**

Regularly test recovery procedures to validate RTO/RPO targets:

.Input
[,bash]
----
# Test topic restoration from Tiered Storage
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk topic describe <topic-name> -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

**Backup and recovery checklist:**

* Configure and validate Tiered Storage for automatic data backup
* Document recovery procedures for different failure scenarios
* Test cluster recovery procedures in non-production environments
* Establish Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point Objective (RPO)
* Maintain runbooks for disaster recovery scenarios
* Verify IAM roles/permissions for object storage access

See also: xref:manage:whole-cluster-restore.adoc[Whole Cluster Restore]

=== Audit logging

Enable and configure audit logging for compliance and security monitoring requirements.

> Verify audit logging configuration:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Verify your audit log configuration:
```

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk cluster config get audit_enabled -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism>
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
true
----

> **Audit log verification:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

> Check where audit logs are being written:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Check to ensure you know where audit logs are being written:
```

.Input
[,bash]
----
# Check audit log topic
kubectl exec -n <namespace> <pod-name> -c redpanda -- rpk topic list -X user=<sasl-username> -X pass=<sasl-password> -X sasl.mechanism=<sasl-mechanism> | grep audit
----

.Output
[,bash,role=no-copy]
----
_redpanda.audit_log    1    3
----

For production environments with compliance requirements (SOC 2, HIPAA, PCI DSS, GDPR), forward audit logs to your SIEM system and configure retention policies according to your regulatory obligations. Ensure the audit log topic has adequate replication and retention settings.

See also: xref:manage:audit-logging.adoc[Audit Logging]

=== Monitoring

Check that xref:manage:monitoring.adoc[monitoring] is configured with xref:manage:monitoring.adoc#configure-prometheus[Prometheus] and xref:manage:monitoring.adoc#generate-grafana-dashboard[Grafana] to scrape metrics from all Redpanda brokers.

Verify ServiceMonitor is configured:

.Input
[,bash]
----
kubectl get servicemonitor -n <namespace>
----

=== System log retention

> 

Reviewer 3: Link to info re system logs

Check that system logs are being captured and stored for an appropriate period of time (minimally, 7 days). Configure log forwarding using tools like Fluentd or your cloud provider's logging solution to send logs to a central location.

=== Environment configuration

Check that you have a development or test environment configured to evaluate upgrades and configuration changes before applying them to production.

=== Upgrade policy

Check that you have an upgrade policy defined and implemented. Redpanda supports xref:upgrade:k-rolling-upgrade.adoc[rolling upgrades], so upgrades do not require downtime. However, make sure that upgrades are scheduled on a regular basis, ideally using automation with xref:manage:kubernetes/k-configure-helm-chart.adoc[Helm] or GitOps workflows.

== Advanced requirements

> The Advanced requirements checklist ensure full enterprise readiness. This indicates that your system is operating at the highest level of availability and can prevent or recover from the most serious incidents. The Advanced requirements checklist confirms the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Advanced requirements checklist ensures full enterprise readiness. This indicates that your system is operating at the highest level of availability and can prevent or recover from the most serious incidents. The Advanced requirements checklist ensures the following:
```

> - You are proactively monitoring mission-critical workloads.

Reviewer 3: None of your other intro lists use end punctuation, so please be consistent with that here.

- You have business continuity solutions in place.
- You have integrated into enterprise security and operational systems.
- Your enterprise is ready to run mission-critical workloads.

=== Configure alerts

A standard set of alerts for xref:manage:monitoring.adoc#generate-grafana-dashboard[Grafana] or xref:manage:monitoring.adoc#configure-prometheus[Prometheus] is provided in the https://github.com/redpanda-data/observability[GitHub Redpanda observability repo^]. Customize these alerts for your specific needs.

See also: xref:reference:monitor-metrics.adoc[Monitoring Metrics]

=== Deployment automation

Review your deployment automation. Ensure that cluster configuration is managed using xref:manage:kubernetes/k-configure-helm-chart.adoc[Helm] or GitOps workflows, and that all configuration is saved in source control.

=== Monitor security settings

> Regularly review your cluster's security settings using the link:/api/doc/admin/operation/operation-get_security_report[`/v1/security/report`] Admin API endpoint. Investigate and address any issues identified in the alerts section.

Reviewer 3: Link not working. Be sure to circle back after this is merged to make sure it works then.
